
Getting Your Hands Dirty with Video Output on Linux Using C++

Most people will use some video app to obtain video output on Linux. But video
output is still generally steeped in mystery and viewed as a magic blackbox
among the Linux community.  However the Lumiera team were confronted with having
to examine the magic blackbox themselves.

In this talk we demonstrate several well established mechanisms that can be used
to display video frames from a Linux desktop application.  We explain the technical
prerequisites to display video frames, discuss the challanges and we show some
widely avaiable technologies used to implement video disaply.

Lumiera is a video editing application under development in C++ -- which we use
here to illustrate how raw video output is at the heart of a video processing
render engine.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Getting Your Hands Dirty with Video Output on Linux Using C++

Most video formats are compressed and packed into containers for performace and
storage reasons. To edit a video it is essential to use a video in a raw format
as a sequence of individual frames. Raw video is processed as buffers filled
with pixel data. The pixels are encoded with respect to some colour space, and
there are a variety of standard mechanisms avaiable, which will be discussed
in the talk.

Handling raw video requires to access, process and transfer an enormous amount
of data. While modern CPUs are more than capable of managing such tasks in real
time, modern hardware is geared towards mastering these steps with precision and
speed. The downside would obviously require hardware specific programming, i.e.,
slightly different software implementations for the various GPUs on the
market. Fortunately the various hardware implementations can be wrapped in a
softare library that depends on vendor specific micro code, a driver in
the kernel.

For this talk we focus on displaying direct video output from a C++ application
that uses some long and well established standard frameworks that are widely
available not only on Linux (HA! or GNU/Linux?????), but on various Unix
flavours:

- XVideo
- OpenGL
- SDL
- Vulcan Wayland????

X Window System (aka X11, X) is a graphics protocol most widely used on Linux
and even older than Linux itself. It has several implementations, e.g., Xorg
server. There is an extention to X to accomodate video output which is capable
of using video hardware to achieve optimum output while not taxing the CPU. This
is knoown as the X Video Extention (aka XVideo).

The X protocol specifies only primitive drawing features, so in addition to
using X other graphic layers can be used that provide the user with more
high-level graphic tools: OpenGL and SDL.

In this talk we would like to present a bare-bone application in C++ to play and
display a sequence of raw video frames to illuminate the various aforementioned
frameworks.

Moreover we would also like present a more mature application,
[[xjadeo][https://xjadeo.sourceforge.net]], which adheres to the framework
premises outlined here.

