
------------------------------------------------------------
After some cursing over the existing codebase some weeks ago, I asked HV
what he thinks about to plan a rewrite/redesign for Cinelerra3, while
keeping Cinelerra2 still maintained.

So far he asked me back about some responsibilities to fill for Cinelerra2,
which I replied with some questions (still waiting for an answer) and a
statement I read as "he wants to see something before rating it". In an
earlier mail he complained that people proposed things but didn't come
up with usable input afterwards, which is admittedly quite sad.

Anyways in the meantime the Cinelerra3 idea got some drive by people on
IRC and we currently starting to define how we want to setup a new
project to make it accessible for anyone interested. This is the part
where your opinions are needed now.

I've set up some wiki pages on my server to collect ideas and serve as
Brainstorming platform see:
 http://www.pipapo.org/pipawiki/Cinelerra3[]

Notably ichthyo did a lot work into setting up a document describing a
possible redesign process.

This wiki is meant as initiate/temporary solution, I do not want to
take over Cinelerra development on my server (for technical and social
reasons).

Some short facts about the ideas we already have:
* The wiki serves as Brainstorming Platform to define the way we want to
work together, as well as collecting design proposals (until we find
something better.
* Use a distributed development model (using git), making this project
completely free, anyone can just clone, hack and propose his work for
others to merge.
* Essentially everyone has his own fork in git, but we may regularly agree
on official releases (CV and HV might be merged this way, lets see what
Adam says)
* We want Cinelerra! Just a better one. This is not about "Yet
another Video Editor", This means that I count on HV acknowledging our
efforts and supporting the idea.
* This time no-one shall be pissed when people propose things and then do
nothing. Expect nothing and merge happily when something is done.
* We have no time pressure, Cinelerra2 can be used for the time being.
* I don't like like mailing lists that much. Development/brainstorming
should take place where a presentable/persistent output is produced
(wiki, maybe distributed in git, UML model, ...). Mail and IRC can be
used for volatile discussions.
* Some Developers will gather at Piksel07 in November
http://www.piksel.no/piksel07/call_html[] feel invited to join us.
* Especially we would like to invite HV to that event, would you make
it? The Linux Foundation offers a travel fund "..for the Rock Stars of
the Open source Community", we think you really qualify for that! ;)

I've set up a small description about the project:
http://www.pipapo.org/pipawiki/Cinelerra3/DesignProcess/Manifest[]

As already proposed, please prefer to use the wiki, instead reply to
this semi-mass mail.


	Greetings
		Christian


Note, this mail is send intentionally to all AUTHORS and some selected
people from which I think they are interested in development, not the the
mailing list. The reason is that I want to get the opinions of the most
involved people first, without being flooded by user requests yet. This
is not really to be kept secret and should be announced sometime next
when we have some more conclusions about how to proceed. If you know any
other person who should be involved/might be interested, please forward
this mail.
------------------------------------------------------------
dummy
